python overview:

PEP - python enchancement Proposal - official design document provided to py community or decrbing python features and process. style guidelines for python code

Python interpreted lanaguage: not compiled, but python virtual machine executes the code by converting it into bytecode

dynamically typed: strong type check. static are checked before execution
dynamic - checked during execution.

why indented: just like java, C++ have {} to define the scope of the statements
indentation is same for python. it is compulsary
it improves readbility 

keywords in python - reserve words that have specific meaning and purpose
as of 3.10, 35 keywords in python
if, True, break,  None etc

built-in dataypes:
Text type: str
Numeric type: int, float, complex
Sequence type: list, tuple, range
Mapping type: dict
set types: set, frozenset (immutable sets, just like what tuples are to list)
Boolean: bool
Binary types: bytes, bytearray, memoryview (https://youtu.be/u1OMKxfbXmk) used for byte level operations
None type: None  (not iterable)

types of functions in python:
1. python Built-in functions
2. Recusion functions
3. lambda functions
4. User-defined functions


class:
__init__ is the contructor of the class object
self - is not a keyword, any variable can be wrtten. the variable(self) is used refer to the instance of that particular object

pass statement: used as a placeholder, nothing happens when executed

how to check if a given string has digit:
1. extract the character at the index and check isdigit() functions
2. use regex
	import modeule re and defines methods that can be used

What is difference between reverse and reversed in Python?
reverse() actually reverses the elements in the container. reversed() doesn't actually reverse anything, it merely returns an object that can be used to iterate over the container's elements in reverse order.

unpacking can be used with any iterable in Python, not just with tuples.

function parameters vs arguments:
in the function definition, they are called parameters
in the actual function call, the values passed are called arguments

positional arguments should be used before using keyword arguments

never include input from user and output to print inside functions, as the function maynot be reusable